A lot of companies claim to be the
fastest-growing companies of all time,
and Anthropic actually is.
>> You guys were at a billion ARR at the
start of 2025. The last number I've seen
is 19 billion ARR. That's 1 to 19
billion dollars in 14 months.
>> Historically, we were very much the
smallest, least well-funded player in
this space. We didn't have the free cash
flow or the distribution of a Meta or
Google. We didn't have the first-mover
advantage of an OpenAI. It's a complete
miracle that we've gotten to the stage
that we have.
>> Give us just a glimpse of what it's like
to be leading growth inside of
Anthropic.
>> It's the hottest job I've had in my
life. You come into Anthropic, you need
to understand that 50, 60, 70% of how
you operate in the past, just throw it
out the door.
>> One of the cleverest growth moves you
all made was this idea of importing
memory from ChatGPT.
>> Activation is a really big challenge in
AI. We are starting to look at how do we
automate growth? Our growth platform
team is driving this effort called
Cache, which is Claude Accelerates
Sustainable hypergrowth. How can we use
Claude to automate growth
experimentation? And it's delivering
results.
>> You're basically living in the future.
>> We always talk about the exponential.
The product value that we will deliver
in 2 years' time is probably like a
thousand X what it is today. The
funniest thing is I've noticed
internally, linear charts are just not
cool. Everything is log-linear, so show
me it log-linear scale.
Today, my guest is Amol Avaisary. Amol
is head of growth at Anthropic, which is
on the most unprecedented growth run in
history. In the past 14 months, they
grew from 1 billion to over 19 billion
in annual recurring revenue. Just in the
past few months, their revenue doubled.
They've been growing 10X year-over-year.
This is unheard of at this scale. By the
time this episode comes out, their
revenue will be even higher. To put this
scale in perspective, companies like
Atlassian and Palantir and Snowflake,
which have been around for 15 to 20
years, each do something like 4 and 1/2
to 6 billion in ARR. Anthropic is adding
this much ARR every few months. And if
that isn't interesting enough to you,
Amol, who leads growth at Anthropic, is
an incredible human. He previously led
growth at Mercury and Masterclass.
Before that, he was a founder and an
investment banker. And most
interestingly, something that most
people don't know about him is that Amol
suffered a severe brain injury. He had
to spend 9 months relearning how to walk
and work and just not be nauseous all
the time. He shared this story in a
guest post in my newsletter a number of
years ago. We actually chat about this
during the conversation. These are my
favorite kind of conversations because
Amol and his team are living in the
future, and he's come to tell us where
things are heading and what's going to
change. And in this episode, Amol shares
an unprecedented look at how a company
like Anthropic operates and grows,
including how they think about growth,
what parts of the job they've automated,
the future of the product and growth
roles, how Amol got the job first place
by cold emailing Mike Krieger, and so
much more. Amol is wonderful, and just
try to count the number of times that he
blew my mind during this conversation.
Before we get into it, don't forget to
check out Lenny's Product Pass.com for
an incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. With that, I bring you Amol
Ezzat Sary.
Amol, thank you so much for being here,
and welcome to the podcast. Glad to be
here.
Head of growth at Anthropic. No big
deal. I've had a lot of people come on
this podcast from companies that claim
to be the fastest growing companies of
all time, and Anthropic actually is if
you look at the trajectory. I just have
some of the numbers here just so people
understand how absurd this is. So, you
guys were at a billion ARR at the start
of 2025, then hit something like 4
billion mid-2025,
then 9 billion ARR at the end of 2025.
And the last number I've seen is you
guys are at 19 billion ARR.
Which uh just to put a couple pieces of
context here. One is that's from one to
19 billion dollars in 14 months.
Um
I have so many questions.
First of all, the story of how you
actually landed this role is really
interesting. Talk about how you how you
got this role.
Yeah, it's a little unorthodox. So, it's
funny in when I when I did my onboarding
they they walked through what percentage
of the cohort came through referrals,
what percentage came through applying on
the website, what percentage came
through uh sourcing, and I was on none
of those. And uh I was like, "Okay, this
is interesting." Um basically the the
way that I I got to Anthropic was that I
was actually a user of Claude, and I was
using a lot. I was like, "Man, these
guys like great product, great company,
but they they really they obviously
don't have a growth team." And uh what I
did was I just sent Mike Krieger a cold
email. He was the chief product officer.
I sent him a cold email saying like,
"Hey, love what you guys do, love the
product. I think you guys badly need a
growth team. Want to chat?" And uh
I didn't expect he would respond. And uh
you know, he responds and says, "Hey,
yeah, I'm interested. Let's let's talk."
And it's funny, I didn't know I mean, I
wouldn't have known they were not hiring
for a growth team. There were no growth
team roles listed. But they were just at
that time starting to think about hiring
a growth team. So, it was very good
timing, but
yeah, one one spoke to spoke to Mike,
and and one thing led to another. He
said I'm the only PM that he's hired
from from cold email. And I I feel very
lucky that he decided to respond to my
email.
I did not know the story. That is
that is another uh absurd fact. Uh
clearly you're good at cold email. What
did you do in this cold email to get his
attention? I would say like I've
basically perfected cold email over the
years. So, I was a when I was a founder,
I I had to get really, really good at
this. So, I I sent a lot of cold emails
out and just honed the the the subject
lines and message and and the tone. And
and so, basically, I have in the subject
line, the first thing is like from a
conversion standpoint, someone sees the
email, they need to click on it. And so,
I have a copy that I've tested that is
like very, very high open rate. And so,
Wait, what is this copy? Or is this a
secret?
>> It's a secret. I think
>> Okay, we'll keep it We'll kind of keep
>> Yeah, it's it's a secret.
Um so, that's one, getting them to open.
I think the second is then the tactics
of You need to understand like where are
people getting outreach. And if you If
everyone's getting outreach in one area
and then
uh you reach out to them there, then
then you're not going to get as high of
a response rate. So, you can think about
like LinkedIn, you can think about like
work email. These are things that
everyone is emailing. So, there's
There's ways to get people's personal
emails out there. And so, like that's
one thing that I did. And so, okay, I've
got his personal email, I know the copy
that works. And then it's just keeping
it very short on here's who I am, here's
why I'd be a good fit, and and we should
chat. And And you know, these things
typically don't work. And then you you
should always follow up a few times. I
think my rule of thumb is like if I
really care about it, I should just keep
keep reaching out to them and until they
tell me like, "Please stop." And so, I
would have I would have kept doing that,
but he responded the first time. It
makes sense that a talented growth
person would be very good at cold email
and getting people's attention. So,
that's almost like an interview step is
just did I want to read this email?
This episode is brought to you by our
season's presenting sponsor WorkOS. What
do OpenAI, Anthropic, Cursor, Vercel,
Replit, Sierra, Clay, and hundreds of
other winning companies all have in
common? They are all powered by WorkOS.
If you're building a product for the
enterprise, you've felt the pain of
integrating single sign-on, SCIM, RBAC,
audit logs, and other features required
by large companies. WorkOS turns those
deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a
modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SaaS. Literally
every startup that I'm an investor in
that starts to expand upmarket and
support working with WorkOS. And that's
because they are the best. Whether you
are seed stage startup trying to land
your first enterprise customer or
unicorn expanding globally, WorkOS is
the fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unblocking growth. It's
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack where
they have actual engineers waiting to
answer your questions. WorkOS allows you
to build faster with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to workos.com
to make your app enterprise ready today.
Okay. So, give us just like a glimpse of
what it's like to be leading growth
inside of Anthropic right now, the most
by far fastest growing company in
history. Just what is it like?
Yeah, I'd say it's I'd say it's very
much a company-wide effort, right? So,
like I guess we we are the growth team.
We have done great. I think we've driven
a lot of impact, but honestly, man, we
can't claim too much credit for the
success of the company. We We as
Anthropic are really a model company and
an intelligence company first and and
foremost. And so, the the lion's share
of of like what has driven our success
is our research team. We have I think
the best research team in the world. We
have great teams on inference and
compute. And then there's many other
teams like Claude Code, Dodo Marketing,
etc. who I think deserve much more
credit than than us. And I think you're
zooming out going going to some of what
you said earlier that the growth
trajectory has just been insane. That
that 10x year-on-year revenue growth
trend has been there since the
beginning. I think 2023 was zero to 100
mil. 2024 was 100 to one. Last year was
one to to roughly 10. And then like I I
I look back to when I joined in 2024,
revenue was in the the hundreds of
millions. And just that trajectory to
the end of 2024 and 2025 like week two
of when I joined, we're going into 2025
revenue planning and we have these like
base case and aggressive case scenarios
and Darius pushing the aggressive case
scenario and people are freaking out
being like how the hell are we going to
hit that and Darius like I think we can
actually go much higher than that. And
I'm I'm coming in like this this this
place is crazy like there's there's
absolutely no way. Um and and and that
happened, right? And and and then you
you get to the end of 2025 and it's like
okay, law of large numbers, there's
going to be a pretty big slow down here
based on you know, your baseline rate of
of 10 billion, how are you going to keep
growing at this rate? And like it just
like has not slowed down and and you
know, these numbers are public. The the
19 billion number you you quoted is from
the end of Feb. So that is also out of
date. Um and it's Look, it's absolutely
insane. Like
the funniest thing is something that I'm
noticing internally is like linear
charts are just like not cool. Like no
one cares about linear charts.
Everything is log linear. I'll show me
it log linear scale and that's that's
kind of the scale we we think and I
think overall we're just, you know,
really hanging on by the seat of our
pants and we're trying to manage the
growth and um do do do the best that we
can for our users. I was talking to
somebody at Anthropic about you and they
said that basically anytime they want
something to grow, they ask you to help
and it works.
So you talked about just like
things are magical and amazing and like
like Claude and all the tools you all
built are amazing innately and that's a
big part of the reason they grow. I
think many people listening to this will
be like what do you act even do a mole
with like a magical micro god that just
can do anything for you? Why do we need
a growth person? What do you even do?
Talk about just the stuff that you focus
on and maybe like a couple of the wins
that your team has shipped that has
helped accelerate growth. I would say
like they're not fully wrong, right?
Like we're we're very very lucky to have
the best models in the world. We're very
lucky to have products like Claude code
and and co-work. It it it suddenly makes
life a lot easier. Um having said that,
I would say this is like the hardest job
I've had in my life and that's uh, you
know, having been a founder, having been
an investment banker and and other
things like that. Uh, it's it's it's
tough and if I if I look at what do we
do as a growth team here? I think it's
the it's it's ultimately it's the same
categories of things that you would
think about at a normal company. So, we
care about acquisition, how are we
getting more more people in the door,
there are the intent of the people
coming through the door, we care about
activation, the the sign-up flow,
funneling people to the right products,
making them them successful. You know,
we care about things like monetization,
free to paid conversion, pricing and
packaging, all all of that stuff that
the the categories of work is the same.
I think then the the the probably the
big differences is I would say that like
roughly 70% of what I I spend my time on
is is what we internally refer to as
success disasters and that is where like
things have gone so well that other
things are breaking now and and I think
anyone who's worked at companies that
have gone through rapid growth,
uh, it seems like Facebook or Uber or
DoorDash early on, like they understand
this viscerally. Where scaling this much
just brings a lot of challenges. If you
think about each of those categories on
acquisition, on activation, on
monetization, there's just a ton of
firefighting, jumping from like one
urgent thing to another and it's often
like extremely painful and and like it's
funny because you look at all the
charts, all the charts are like green,
like fully up into the right and
everyone's just like it's it can be
quite tough emotionally still. And so,
you need to sort of step back and just
realize that we're very lucky to have
these problems. But that's sort of 70%
of of of my time I'd say is just these
like firefighting of success disasters
and I think the 30% remaining is just
much more standard bread and and butter
growth work where it's like more
proactive. So, you think about, okay, if
we have limited resources, which which
are the products we We many different
products, which are the products we want
to put some juice behind? What does our
long-term pricing and packaging look
like? Especially given that the
technology is changing a lot in and
behavior and engagement trends are
shifting. And then, you know, things
like we have a lot of new products
coming up. Like, okay, you have you
shipped co-work. Now what? Like, when is
the right time that we should lean in as
a growth team to start optimizing the
core adoption funnel for for co-work.
So, it's very 70 70% just crazy fire
fighting, 30% more more bread and butter
stuff. Okay, I'm going to dig into a lot
of that stuff. One of the cleverest
growth
uh moves you all made recently was this
idea of importing memory from chat GPT,
where you just made it really easy and
kind of jumped on this trend of people
getting really excited about Anthropic.
Is there anything you could share about
this the behind-the-scenes story of that
feature? We were always thinking about
what can we do to improve the the cold
start problem and improve the new user
experience. I think that activation is a
really big challenge in AI. And so, you
know, that's like one one example of
something that that we shipped that was
very um you know, specific to a a moment
in time. But ultimately, that you zoom
out, it's like, okay, how do you really
how do you really make it easier for
people who are signing up to have Claude
understand who they are and understand
how Claude can help them and get them to
to the right place. I want to follow
that thread, activation. There's
something that comes up a ton when I
talk to people leading driving growth on
AI products.
It's just like
like there's so much stuff trying to get
your attention these days for people to
get to a place where they okay, wow,
this is really going to be something I I
want to keep using it. It proves to be
really hard. And it's also just
unreliable. Sometimes it's not going to
be magical. It's AI. It's a
non-deterministic.
I guess one is just like
uh how important is focusing on
activation, getting people to that aha
moment with AI products. And two, what
are some things you've learned about how
to do that well with with Claude or AI
in general?
Yeah, it's a good question. I I think
that activation it's it's critical,
right? And and and defining that is like
early activation, call it day zero, day
one product experience. I think that
historically, anyone who's who's been in
growth or been in product understands
that that's this usually one of the
highest levers that you have to actually
even increase like longer-term
retention. And I think that that the
importance of that is just gotten
exponentially higher. Now, zooming out,
I feel like one of the biggest problems
in the industry is capability overhead,
where the models are just getting better
so quickly. And and it the the real
challenge is on the product side of how
do we start to um diffuse those benefits
to to to people where even internally
like it there's there's new models
coming internally and you're sitting
there you're so busy and and when it
when you when a new model's available,
you you need to like really carve out
time to be like, "What what can this do?
How do I need to update my priors?" And
and if you think about more broadly, for
most people, you may have a model that
is like a you may have AGI or some you
know, model that can do all sorts of
crazy things, but if if people's
instinct is to come there and be like,
"Hey, what's the weather in SF?" then,
you know, you they're not going to get
the the most out of of of the product.
And then so
I think that it's it's it's tough
because the model capabilities are
rising so much. So like if I if I think
about, okay, back when we had, I don't
know, say like Opus 4, at that there's
there's a series of things the model can
do at that point and and Opus 4.5
unlocked a whole bunch of new things.
You can think about, okay, we sit there,
we've got this new model Opus 4. The the
time to then go and run a bunch of
tests, figure out, okay, there's the
capabilities from this new model. What
are the right on ramps to to guide
people to those features? You know, you
run you run tests, you get the
learnings, you then ship a new flow. By
then, you may already have the next
model which unlocks newer capabilities
that makes all these learnings
irrelevant, right? So like it's actually
just like a really difficult problem to
to stay on top of. I think that many of
the same things same old trends in in in
growth and activation remain I think
accurate where to me it's like
ultimately you you the some of the
highest leverages from
finding
the right product or the right feature
for the right user. And I think that one
learning
seen this time and time again across
companies actually like
the right friction helps and and adding
more friction usually works if you do it
the right way. I think that's something
I've consistently seen that we we've
seen here as well. So to me I think it's
really
underst being able to identify which
what are the characteristics of the user
that allows you to then recommend them
to the right feature or product and not
being shy about adding friction to to do
that. I think is probably like the
single biggest thing that that's
important here. When I asked Ben Mann,
one of the co-founders, former podcast
guest what's ask you about and this is
what he highlighted is your experience
especially at Mercury redoing onboarding
and making it magical. And basically
he's in the same
place as you have just how important it
is for people to understand what the AI
tool capable of
to help people
decide to use it and stick with it. Is
there an example of something you
changed in onboarding that helped
significantly improve activation? Yeah,
it's a great great question and and I I
like that he brings up Mercury. I I I
talk about their their product a lot. So
worked on the growth team at Mercury. I
think it's a fantastic product. It's
something many people use and the reason
they use it is because the better
banking experience than you
>> Yeah, I'm a I'm a very happy customer
just to put that out there. I love it.
great product. Highly recommend it. They
have a personal banking. Everyone's got
to go go and use it. Right, they just
launched that. I I I and and and so I
think that the interesting thing about
Mercury is like the core value is that
it's a better experience, right? That
that's the reason you use it. You're not
getting like better other things. It's
just it's a better product experience.
And so
the that ethos is very very deeply held
within the company. It comes from uh a
number of the founders and um I think
that we we had a big push one quarter
when I was there on on the onboarding
flow. So, onboarding flows for for
banking institutions and regulated
entities are extremely complex. Like,
the the the amount of time I spent on
the difference between like a registered
agent address and a legal address and a
physical address. Like, these things are
very very complex and that we we
basically looked at the onboarding flow.
We're like, "Okay, we we invested so
much in quality in the rest of the
product, but we haven't really done it
here. And this is the first experience
that people have." And And so, we said,
"Forget metrics, forget growth, forget
everything else." As the growth team on
conversion, we're going to spend a whole
quarter fixing quality in in this flow.
And so, that's what we did. Like, forget
the metrics, we're just going to make
this as good of an experience as we can
and fix all these like you go back from
one field to the other field and adding
in your beneficial ownership details.
And it actually ended out being like And
probably until I joined here, like, the
the single most impactful quarter that
I've ever had as a growth team in terms
of the impact that it had. And so, we
saw a significant uplift from uh on
basically our like onboarding started to
to completion from from just focusing on
quality. And so, that that to me is like
a broader learning around quality drives
growth that I think I I've tried to to
to bring to Anthropic. I think for us at
Anthropic, um you know, some of the
things that we've done in the onboarding
flow uh
is is basically like we we ask users
questions around
who who they are, what their interest
areas are. And we we then use that to
recommend different products and
features. And like, number of people
look at the flow and they're like, "You
have so much friction. It's such a long
flow." And I'm like, "We We have the
data. We're kind of happy with how
that's performing." What is your kind of
a philosophy on friction, good friction
versus bad friction? I've just seen time
and time again at every job I've been in
in growth that adding friction and
adding the right steps uh leads to
high-end conversion and and higher
funnel completion. So, you want to get
rid of and I think especially if you
have high volume, you should test the
majority of this and just learn and and
see like does this apply to your
business as well, but you you want to
you want to get rid of annoying friction
that doesn't add value, but the the like
I think the most simple understanding
people have is like just get just just
just solve time to value. Cut all the
steps and just get them into the
product. And and like that doesn't work
most times. Like I think if you if
you're if you've really thoroughly
tested your flows, I look at the
companies I've been at Masterclass. If
you go through Masterclass's purchase
flow right now, you'll go through all
these steps in this this quiz when you
land on when you're trying to buy and
it's you're like you're like I came here
to buy and it's taking me through all
these questions. What are you here for
etc. I think it's easy to look at that
and be like why why do they have this?
This is like a terrible thing. Just cut
it all. And it's like no, like that's
been thoroughly tested and and actually
that was like a significant revenue
driver because it helps users feel that
the product is for them by understanding
what their interests are and then
recommending the content and and classes
there. One of the the growth PMs on our
team left to to join Calm, calm.com the
meditation app. If you go to Calm's
you know, their landing page and you go
through their purchase flow, their login
flow, you'll see a quiz. It's like not
not a not a a coincidence at at Mercury
we also tested I think I think you might
post on Twitter like we broke out some
steps in onboarding and just having one
screen, if you have like five or six
different form inputs and you you often
break that into two screens and reduce
the cognitive load people at that that
is something that that performs well. We
added steps into the flow there that
that actually performed well. Same with
at Anthropic. So, I think the the
takeaway to me is like cut friction when
it doesn't
add to the experience of helping a user
understand why the product is for them.
But, if you can help users understand a
product why product is for them and like
how to use it and and what's what's most
relevant to them and it's going to add
friction, don't shy away from it. Test
it, confirm that it works for you, but I
think this is like a something that like
most growth practitioners deeply
understand. And the for them is really
important there, which you described as
adding friction to better understand who
they are so that you know how to
recommend the right thing for them.
Correct. Yes. And like that that like
done right, that just it just flows
through, right? So, it helps you with
activation, but then it helps you with
life cycle. You know more about those
users and why they here and and like
in our most sophisticated businesses,
you can then even if someone drops off,
you can do like look-alike targeting and
you can get you can get them at the ad
layer as well. So, that that initial
piece of how you understand the who the
user is is just like it's a juice that
just keeps on giving if you if you then
use it right further down funnel.
Everyone's about to go do a bunch of
tear-downs of Cloud's onboarding,
MasterClass onboarding, Mercury
onboarding.
Uh
kind of as a tangent, I was at this PM
dinner recently and I was asking all the
PMs
how has your role as a PM changed most
with AI? Like where is AI most impacted
with you do? And one of the PMs answered
that is actually doing competitive
analysis, doing a bunch of like
tear-downs of what other people are
doing for pricing pages and onboarding.
So, it's easy to do now. Just hey hey
hey co-work. I don't know, would you
co-work for this or Cloud? What would
you use for that? Okay, this is good.
Help people
pick which tool to use. If you want to
go do a bunch of tear-downs of other
competitors onboarding flows, what would
you use? You can use you can use co-work
for this, right? Um so, if you have
co-work with the Chrome extension, so if
you task co-work with the Chrome
extension, go and look for these these
flows and uh show me give me a view of
what's working, what's not. That's
definitely something that that Coda can
do. Cool. I think that imagine that's
one of the challenges is like you have
all these tools now and just which one's
for me.
Um by the way, the Chrome extension, I
use it all the time. It's amazing.
I want to drill a little bit further
into the growth org.
There's this whole meme on Twitter the
other day of just like you have one
growth marketer driving all growth at
Anthropic and it's like, "Okay, that's
crazy."
What's like how many growth people are
there? What's kind of the rough org
structure of the growth team? We're
roughly maybe 40 people now and so
we are I think structured very much like
a traditional growth team in that
we have sort of horizontals of of growth
platform and monetization who think
about the the the the sphere of growth
across the the entirety of our products
and then we we have more sort of
audience-focused growth pods. You can
think about like B2B growth, you can
think about cold code growth, knowledge
worker growth, API growth. So so really
like these audiences to to keep a narrow
focus, which is a thing you have to do
when you have so many different
products. Uh and then these these
horizontals that that sort of think
about things um across across the board.
And is it a cross uh a team of
engineers, designers, PMs? What's kind
of like the functions within the growth
org? Yeah, it's it's engineers,
designers, PMs, data. Um I think that
overall the shape of the org is quite
similar to I'd say a traditional um
growth team. Probably the things that
are maybe different is that we I think
that we index a lot more towards larger
swings as opposed to smaller
optimizations. Like if I think about a
traditional growth team, uh I would have
probably done maybe 60-70% of my time on
small to medium bets, 20 to 30 um
percent on on larger swings and I think
that for us we we we we we we flip it a
lot. Like, we we do much more the other
way, where it's sort of 70/30 or more
like 50/50, um rather than than than
indexing towards smaller bets. That's
probably like one of the the biggest
changes, I I think. Just to highlight
that, what's interesting there is at the
scale you guys are at, uh like a 1% win
is massive in the scheme of things. So,
it's interesting that even at the scale
you're at, you're not focusing on these
up micro-optimizations.
It is easy like you could easily focus
on these small optimizations, and then
you tally them up at the end of the
quarter, and you're like, "Look how much
impact we made." And like, you could do
that.
>> Another billion. No big deal.
>> Yeah, but but the the thing is like
we're we're we're we've been tracking at
10x year-on-year, and we we we, you
know, that's like the the thing that we
we sort of keep in mind, and
I I think it like ultimately comes down
to our fixation in this company about
the exponential. I think if you look at
anyone is talking about talking from
Anthropic about
basically anything, we always talk about
the exponential. Like, it's is if
effectively as model capabilities
continue to grow on an exponential, um
and and the the tools around them enable
a better job of
diffusing that into into uh
useful use cases, you basically just
keep unlocking new markets that where
where the value of those markets
significantly dwarfs what the value of
of the previous markets were. And like,
agentic coding is a great example. Like,
it didn't exist you know, a year a year
and a half ago. And then now just the
value of agentic coding is is bigger
than the like previous market of
AI coding use. And and so, and I think
that is like the core thing here, which
is that the future product value is an
order of magnitude higher than it is
today. And I I think about
I don't know, like a a normal business,
like number of companies that I've I may
mention or like thinking about like a a
trading app or like a grocery delivery
product. Like, they're all many of these
like the the leading companies are great
businesses, but if I think about what is
the product value that the a company
like a standard like call it a grocery
delivery app like what is the product
value you get as an end user today
versus two years from now? I I I look at
it as like again two years from now even
if you're you're shipping all these new
products as an end user you the the
value you get from that product maybe
goes up like 30 to 50% if the company's
done a really good job of of shipping
new features. It's not exponential
though and and and and so if I think
about okay, you're here today in two
years you're going to have 30 to 50%
more product value then as a growth team
that like relative differential of the
product value two years from now
relative to today, I can actually
capture like a decent percentage of that
with the small to medium optimizations
that typically have higher conviction as
opposed to like larger bets, but
for ants route take it it's not really
that way where where that because of the
exponential and and our products being
like very very very the the product
value coming from AI, the
the the product value that we will
deliver in two years time is probably
like a thousand X a hundred to a
thousand X what it is today. And so if I
think about that and it's like
there's so much value on offer. You need
to shift more towards okay, we need to
take larger bets and then we need to not
not sort of miss the the forest for the
trees and and so that's why we we do we
still do all the small optimizations. It
really matters and like no one else is
going to do some of these things and so
we we need to do it. The compounding
value is not immaterial, but we we do
take on much larger core product type of
swings as well. So you mentioned that
the Chrome extension like that is now
the thing that underpins a number of use
cases on co-work and and and cord code
as well. And that's something that the
growth team built. That's like a very
like AI filled product that is like a
very research heavy product, but we we
were just bullish on it. We had an an
engineer who was very bullish on it, and
we were just like, "Hey, no one else is
doing it. We're we're going to do it."
And And so, that's the sort of thing
that I wouldn't have done at a another
company.
Oh, wow. That's I did not know that. So,
the takeaway one takeaway here is
like, you know, there's like stuff to
extract from your advice that is like
only true at Anthropic, and then there's
what can other companies learn from this
experience
that you've had?
So,
one is
is your sense that if you're working in
AI, shift more of the pie chart towards
bigger bets because in the future, the
opportunity is so large, you want to get
find those as soon as possible versus
micro optimize?
To be more specific there, it's I'd say
that it's if the primary value that your
product delivers is underpinned by AI
as as a central element of it, then I
think you should operate this way. So, I
don't know. Companies like yeah,
lovable, cursor, you know, all these
like great businesses that are like it's
as the exponential rises, their their
value props are also going to continue
to rise significantly. Like, if if
you're building a product where it's
like it's an AI first product, then I
would definitely operate in this way. I
think if you're building a product where
you're it's not necessarily an AI first
product, and you have some AI features
that are on the side, but it's not the
core of your value,
I don't know that I would operate this
way. It would need to do I would do it
would depend on how is the rest of the
product all staffed, and how is the
growth all staffed in relation to that.
Okay, awesome.
And then in terms of the way you are
structured, I thought that was really
interesting. It's like a combination of
different sorts of things. So, there's
like
uh the API growth, there's Claude code
growth, but then there's also like
personas, like a vertical of like
knowledge workers and B2B. Is that
intentional? Like some specific bets and
one just kind of like broad market
opportunity? When you have like one
product, it's easier to to have a growth
team that's more like purely on the
funnel, right? It's like you have the
conversion, you have activation, you
have monetization. But as you start to
get into having multiple products, I
think that's harder because if you do
that, then you know, if you just have a
like one activation team for example,
but then you have Coda, Code, you have
Co-work, you have all the other things.
They're very different audiences and and
and they're very different sets of
cross-functional stakeholders
internally. So, we're kind of looking at
what what is the thing and what what
structures I'm going to not perfect and
they're like right for a point in time,
but we're looking for what is the
structure that allows us to
have as much focus. Like focus is a
really big thing and on on audience and
and and and problems and and and also
the ties to cross-functional partners is
really really important. Like our the
folks in our Coda Code growth team, like
they work extremely closely with Cat and
Boris and the others on that team. And
so that that tie-in is is is really
important as well. So, you've done
growth at a lot of different companies,
a lot of basically, let's call it
traditional growth before Anthropic.
How else is growth as a function and as
a skill set changing with the rise of AI
AI products AI startups? I think if your
your your core product value is very
backed by AI, then it is it is shifting
where your your skewing more towards
larger bets as opposed to smaller medium
experiments. I think in
other things and maybe big big thing
related to this that I think will
accelerate this, which I am really
interested to see how it will play out,
is we are starting to look at how do we
automate growth, which I think is like a
really interesting area. So, our growth
platform team,
we're
we're very lucky. We have like Alexey
Komissarouk teaches growth engineering
at Reforge and he's just like the guy on
the team. And and so he is driving this
effort
that it's it's the name is a it's a
little cringey. I didn't come up with it
and it's like it's called cash, which is
Claude accelerates sustainable hacker
growth. I I did not come up with that.
Um, but but but really it's an it's an
effort to to to look at how can we use
Claude to automate growth
experimentation? And
it is still very very small. It's still
very very early. Uh, we we we kicked it
off only I think a couple of months ago.
I think before Opus 4.5 it wasn't really
possible. It would just like not not
seeing the results and more recently
with Opus 4.6 we're like, okay, this
this is like headed in the right
direction. And so
this I think is
it will happen more and more across the
the the industry where
basically if you think about, okay, I
think this can happen all across product
that grow growth teams in particular
because there's this whole body of work
that is very small optimizations. I
think I just more inherently uh, suited
to to like tackle this earlier. Uh,
I I think if if you if you think about
like the the life cycle of shipping,
there's there's sort of four parts to
it. One is there's um, identifying
opportunities. Like how good is Claude
at actually identifying opportunities
based on different trends, based on um,
previous trends that that Claude has
seen in the past. Second is then
building the actual feature and and
getting it ready to ship. Um, third is
is testing and ensuring that it meets
your your your quality bar and your
brand bar. And then fourth is then once
you've actually shipped the thing
analyzing the data, get gathering the
learnings. If you think about that as
like a the the the loop of, okay, the
these are four things that you can eval
and hill climb on each of these areas
and understand how good is a model doing
for you there. And we we we we basically
think about it in that like the four
four four ways. And um, and and we are
scoring how good is Claude doing in each
of those areas. And so we've been
testing this with pretty small scale
right now. It's all been a lot of copy
changes and some like very minor UI
tweaks. It's It's It's It's delivering
results, right? Like and it's like you
can push it, press play with it and it's
like it It ultimately prints money where
I'd say that the win rate is like I
would expect to see a junior PM to do
better. Like I I would say like this is
like a junior PM like 2 3 years in. I
would say this is like the the win rate
that I would expect from from like a
junior PM. Um but it's not quite at the
senior PM level. Although I think like
you look at the exponential this wasn't
available at all a couple of months ago.
So it It's It's It's getting better, you
know, rapidly and um I think that the
the
It's going to change where you you'll be
able to do this for larger and larger
types of experiments. Um but but then,
you know, you think about the largest
types of experiments. I think the
the the I I mentioned the the the four
pieces around sort of identifying
opportunities, building, testing, and
shipping. The one I didn't mention
there, Lenny, is cross-functional
stakeholder management. There's still a
need for human brains. Yes, there it is.
And and like I think that that that one
is is going to mean that like in my eyes
the work of PMs is like not going away
actually anytime soon and um that that
piece, especially for larger project You
You don't need to do as much of it for
smaller stuff, right? You can You can
You can skip it, but for larger stuff uh
that that piece is is not not not going
away. Until the the other stakeholders
are their own little agents running
around.
>> that's right. I think that would be the
point where that changes. It's funny. We
had a We had like a difficult meeting a
couple of weeks ago and me and my uh
head of design, Joel, we were debriefing
afterwards and he thinks and he's just
like "Um oh, we will have AGI and it
will still be impossible to get six
people in a room to to get to align."
And uh I'm like, "Yeah, I think that's I
can see that." That's a Like what's the
harder alignment problem?
Oh. Okay, this is so interesting and
this is exactly where I feel like things
are going. So just to be clear what you
shared here, there's basically this tool
that comes up with
experiments to run to help grow Claude
and all the tools. So it comes up with
idea,
somebody looks at them, approves, cool,
let's do these things, builds it, ships
it, tests the results, see how it's
doing and then it comes back with like
here's things that are working. Is that
roughly right? It's roughly right and
like we right now we have human in the
loop approving, but like the amount of
time I can't think about scaling this
way of just like week on week are things
getting better in each of the areas? Are
people spending less time on each of the
areas? Are your results getting better
in each of the areas? And as long as
like week on week that's getting better
than you're like, okay, this whole
initiative is like scaling. Um and and
so that that's roughly right, but you
can think about it as
I think a lot of this can be automated
where human review is not needed. So we
care a lot about brand, right? So that
is something that we we do look at right
now. We don't want to be shipping
something that goes against the brand,
um but then
you know, you can have a skill that a
skill that that
contains your your your brand guidelines
and and very clear yet do's and don'ts
on on brand and and and so all of these
types of like accompaniments, I think
are going to get better. The models then
get better at understanding how to use
them and so over time I I think that the
need to like human review this really
really decreases significantly. Yeah,
and you could always unship it if it's
like, oh yeah, that was actually not a
great idea. And that's such a good point
that we like we think we need people to
do these things forever and it turns
out, okay, a skill could do this really
well. Here's our brand guidelines,
here's our vision, here's our mission,
here's our goals, here's what matters to
us. Okay, let's not ship that thing.
So the reason I think this is so
interesting, this is like I've just been
watching the expansion of AI doing more
of the product development process, in
in case the growth process of just,
okay, it from helping you write code to
like writing all your code to reviewing
your code. Now it it feels like what are
the other ends of this the two ends
around this? It's kind of going from the
middle out. The the top of that is
coming up with what to do and then
there's like the alignment stuff still
very hard. And then on the other end
it's
reviewing the code and then shipping it
and then get distribution is
that's like a whole other thing I want
to talk to you about.
So what I'm hearing here and this is
exactly what I thought was going to
start happening is AI is now getting
really good at telling us what to do not
just taking our orders and building it
and it feels like the growth
version of this is where it starts
because it's so much simpler just like
not that growth is easy but just like
it's data driven there's this loop that
you talk about. So I think this is such
an interesting sign of things to come
across just generally product. Yeah,
definitely. Just putting that out there.
Okay, so something that I'm constantly
thinking about along these lines is just
the future of product PM engineering,
how those roles shift over time based on
the stuff we're talking about.
How how are you working together as a as
a triad? And where do you see these
roles going? What's most going to change
do you think across these three roles?
This is like something that we
talk about and think about frequently
and the the the picture changes rapidly.
So sometimes when when things break and
you know execution like the bottlenecks
break historically in the past it's like
okay, now you need to hire more
engineers, you need to hire more
designers etc. and it's more just like a
a life cycle thing of like where is the
life cycle of your team and that
specific pod to identify where the
bottleneck is but now when when when
things break you need to still look at
it of like okay, is it like the actual
ratio or is there also underlying
technological shifts that are that are
also causing this to break? And so
that's like a an interesting thing. I
think that smaller companies if you find
me like a 15 or 20 person company and
like the only PM there working with some
designers and engineers I I I think um I
think in the smaller companies you'll
see probably like the biggest blend
where like the PM will be doing all
sorts of they'll be you know, designing,
shipping, etc. And I I think you just
have extreme bifurcation. You know, at
larger organizations, more scaled
organizations, I think the jury is still
very much out. Like you you speak to
people even internally here and
different people in different teams have
different views of like, okay, how much
of these roles coming together versus
how much of these roles going going to
be separate. I I think that
it's not to say like I think even the
PMs like a number of PMs are shipping
and and and like themselves shipping and
and and pushing PRs, etc. But I if I if
I look at okay, across what I'm seeing,
I think that it's it's clear that
while PMs and designers are getting more
leverage from AI, engineering is getting
the most leverage right now. And I I
look at tools like Cloud Code and like
they the amount of leverage engineers
are getting from them is higher than I
think the amount of engineer the
leverage that designers and PMs are
getting from them today. Now that this
is like rapidly also changing, but that
that to me is like my view today. And so
um
if you think about okay, the default
team, which is say five engineers, one
designer, one PM. With Cloud Code, that
that that five engineers is like two to
three x'd, right? And and the PMs and
designers have also increased, but they
that now they're managing what is
effectively a much larger group of of
and and engineers. And so even though
like the head count in the org structure
hasn't changed, you're now you're now
just dealing with a situation of maybe
15 to 20 engineers in the old world, 1
and 1/2 to 2 PMs, and like maybe 1 and
1/2 to to 2 designers.
And so we're seeing that that's putting
like a lot of strain on on PM and and
design. And it's it's not everywhere.
Like I look at teams like Cloud Code and
I think that all because that product is
so technical, like it's probably like
just the the right thing where you the
PMs are like all basically engineers
themselves anyway. But but you know, we
had a product like a PM lead on site the
other week and we were all just like
talking about this where across the
board their feeling is where PM and
design is just squeezed. It's just
absolutely squeezed and we're like is it
is it right thing here we just need to
actually hire like a ton more more PMs
and and that that could it could
actually be where we we we we land. You
know, on growth how I think about it is
like
one, we are hiring a number of growth
PMs. We we desperately need people who
are very very good and we are we are
hiring. So if you if you are excited by
what we're doing and and you know
growth, please please feel free to
apply. I would love to love to chat. And
um
Maybe craft a maybe craft an amazing
cold email to you. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Feel free to craft craft craft that
email. Um So So that's one is I think we
are going to be hiring in a number of
PMs. But then the second thing that we
do is we we we very much hire
product-minded engineers. I think this
has always been the best thing to do in
growth. Like you always want to have the
the engineers coming up with ideas etc.
And so we especially especially people
who who can really like step in as mini
PMs if if people uh if the PM is is
absent. And so we're like basically more
formally leveraging that right now
because we are so stretched. So the the
frame that we have is that if a project
is less than is two weeks of engineering
time or less, then the the engineer is
on the hook to effectively be the PM for
that. And so that means things like
talking to security, talking to legal,
talking to cross-functional
stakeholders. And the engineer is very
much driving that. The PM will get
looped in and and they'll advise if
needed. And if something is like like
wildly going off track, then they'll
step in, but they're much more in an
advisory capacity versus execution. If a
project is more than two engineering
weeks, then the default is that the PM
should continue to to be on the hook for
for making that go well. And they'll
delegate more to eng, but they're like
squarely accountable. It's not like
fully clean cut. It's like use your
head. Like if this is a
one-week thing, but it's extremely
controversial, like the PM should
probably still drive it, but that that I
think is like the the approach that I
expect more companies will start to do,
which is just deputize the engineers to
be mini PMs. Now, not everyone can do
it, right? So, the the PMs the the the
engineers who are more product-minded,
suddenly their value goes up
significantly, like like an order of
magnitude. And and then I think we will
probably still be hiring a lot a lot of
PMs.
There is so much interesting stuff I
want to follow up on here. Okay, so one
is this idea of two weeks just briefly.
I always joke as a PM,
uh you can go on vacation and be away
for like a couple weeks from your team,
and things are going to be all right.
Like they'll you know, there's like a
momentum, there's a plan, people will
keep operating. And it feels like that's
kind of a
this rule of thumb you use of just okay,
if it's two-week project, you'll be all
right without a PM, you can handle it.
Uh I love that those two connect. Okay,
the other here is so interesting. So,
you're saying here that because
engineers are so accelerated and this
all makes sense, PMs and design are kind
of just like holy sh- there's like hard
to keep up with the space of
engineering. And what you're saying is
you need more and more PMs
to keep up. That's one route, or it's
engineers that can PM essentially. Which
is so funny. It's just like okay, great
use for product managers uh until more
of the PM-y stuff can be done by AI.
But that's a really interesting trend. I
don't know, is there anything else there
just like oh wow, we actually may need
more PMs. The ratio more PMs, fewer
engineers might be the future. Yeah, I I
I think this is like it it's just like
really depends on the industry, the the
size of company. Like any company where
you're building something that's like
much more developer focused, like you're
going to rely on the engineers a lot
more. Earlier companies, you don't don't
have as much of this like
cross-functional coordination,
stakeholder alignment nonsense that you
need all these PMs for. So, you you can
like get by with less. But then as a
company scales, then
like
if I think about okay, now you have this
ratio where maybe the the one PM became
two PMs from like productivity, that the
like five engineers became like 20
engineers, the one designer maybe became
like three designers.
If you think about like what is the best
use of time for that PM? I think this is
like a really interesting thing of like
how much should PMs be actually shipping
things themselves versus everything
else. I think like in the in the world
where you're like limited on
engineering, the PM should definitely be
shipping things. I think in in today's
world,
um this is a good way to like get an
understanding of the tools, which is
really important. So, the PM should be
shipping for that reason. But if I'm if
I'm one one PM or two PMs and there's 20
engineers, I think about what is the
incremental value I can add with with my
time and is it actually shipping like
the 21st PM feature or is it saying how
am I getting a little bit better at
guiding the team on what the right
opportunities are? And And And so,
that's where I think like in this world,
you may have all these engineers who are
like mini PMs. And the better that
happens, like that's like where I would
love to be doing more of. But still like
the if if you then get a really good PM
who can come in and can like improve
that the the like why and the what and
and
why and the what particularly by like
5%, that is like such a high leverage
hire. This is such an interesting
insight you're making. It's like so
counter to how a lot of people are
thinking PM is evolving. Like what I'm
hearing here is because PMs are so
behind, because engineers are just
getting so much done, there's
like many people here, okay, you need to
be prototyping, you need to be shipping
PRs as a PM. What you're saying, which I
completely agree with, is your time is
much better spent helping
PM basically, and helping the engineers
uh become better PMs themselves. And And
the leverage there is a lot higher than
you spending time coding shipping PRs in
most cases.
>> I think that's true in certain
circumstances. I think that as a smaller
company, I don't know that that's the
case. In a smaller company where it's
all hands on deck, I I think you you you
probably need to be shipping. I think if
you're in a company where like budgets
are very tight, and engineers are very
tight, and you you know, you're not able
to just hire because money's unlimited,
then like you need to do what the what
is needed to to accelerate the the like
the the impact your team's going to
have, right? So there's going to be a
number of cases where like as a PM, the
right thing to do is to be like screw
it, I am shipping, and like I am I am
going it the whole way. But if I'm
talking here more about the like larger
companies, more scaled businesses,
yeah, if you have 20 20 engineers, is is
is it the highest use leverage of your
time to ship an extra feature, or figure
out how do I up-level everything that
we're doing, get the user insights
better, etc. Yeah, and I think there's
also an element of shipping to learn,
building a prototype so that you can
have a better opinion.
Like a lot of people talk about just I'm
just going to try three things, see how
it goes, and that'll help inform the
road map. This is now the PRD is look at
it instead of talking about it. So
there's a lot of value there still.
That's that's that's very true. I think
that's a great That's a great point. So
like even for me now, where we've got
number of PMs, we've got many engineers,
there are certain times I'm like, I want
to articulate the idea I have in my
head.
It's just better for me to prototype it
and show it, right? So I think that that
is really important. Um and then, you
know, we we are very scrappy. So, like
we're like a big big company by by name,
valuation, but we're like extremely
scrappy and just the the focus
internally just like minimize
bureaucracy and just like just go. And
so,
probably 70 70% maybe 60 70 80% of what
we what we ship does not have a PRD. I'm
like averse to PRDs. I I think I just
like I just like hate documentation. I'm
just like go go go. Just like cut cut
cut the blockers. Um 20 30% of stuff
where it's like it's important, it's
really important to get right. Like the
documentation should be really good and
like the people should spend a lot of
time on it. But by and large I think
PRDs are just out outdated at this point
and and um
you can just kick things off with a good
team without without needing to to do
that sort of thing. Say more about that.
What do you do to help make sure because
people can build so fast or spend a lot
of time going in the wrong direction,
ship things that are not what you're
asking. How do you kick off a project
and clarify here's what we're doing. Is
it just a conversation or is there
anything beyond that? It really depends
on the size of it. And this kind of goes
back to like the two week thing. So, the
why we have that two week thing, it's
more like
a
how do I have some filter to say if
we're investing heavily into something,
we should apply more thinking behind it
versus if it's a smaller set of
investments, just go for it. Then as a
growth team again, you do have a decent
amount of these smaller things that you
do. So, for for very small changes
you know, like how there's a thing
coming, we need to have an upsell for
it. What is the the thing we're doing?
Like this is just on Slack, right? This
is just purely on Slack. It's just a
messages back and forth and we'll
I think it also depends on having a good
caliber of engineer in there. But
engineers can can understand like, "Hey,
I know you said this, but like what
about that for the audience?" And so,
like we're we're lucky we have good good
product minded engineers in that sense.
But all these smaller things are very
much just on on on Slack back and forth
and and and that's what you you do. For
the larger things, I think I I very
firmly believe in like a proper kickoff.
So, we we still do just there's so much
going on at this place. No one's got
time. No one knows what's going on. And
so, doing a cross-functional kickoff,
get legal, get safeguards, get everyone
in the room and just be like, this is
what we plan to do.
What do you What do you care about? What
do you care about? What do you care
about? Like that that's 30-minute
meeting um for larger things is just I
think still so important to to just
streamline all the mess that may happen
later if you don't do that work early
on. What's your approach to crafting
that PRD in those cases? Is it like
ramble into Claude? Is it Do you have a
template? Even in those cases, there are
times I don't craft a PRD. Like cuz
we're just everything's moving so
quickly, right? So, there's still some
of those cases where I just set up the
meeting. And then like 5 minutes before,
I'll put it into Coda, like here you
know, some of my thoughts, what credit,
like here are the things that I need to
think about. Spin up like a a basic doc
and and we use it to talk. Other times I
won't even have a doc. But if if I am
creating a PRD, um I have basically
skill like a skill that that I I view
they've created um and then there's
projects with all the previous PRDs in
there. Uh and then I will
it it's pretty simple. Like I'll it has
the format down. So, I'll just say, here
are the things I care about. Here's the
why. Here's the problem. And flesh out
the key considerations. Fresh it Fresh
out the cross-functional stakeholders,
those types of things. But again, my my
my default is like if I can avoid the
doc and if we can just just jump to
action, then then that's what we should
do. And increasingly just I just jump to
prototyping the thing. Yeah, that's
that's where I think it'll get so
interesting once we can automate more of
that. Just like your uh assistant
talking to the legal assistant just like
ironing out all these little, you know,
what's important to you, what's
important to the Yes, and it's coming.
And I think the legal has done like good
enablement around this. Like we work in
these versions of like how do you you
can think about like how can you um
mimic what someone might say and like
set up, you know, like a quote, right?
So, there's there's things like that
that I think that we have now. And then
as Claude gets more and more context and
gets better at passing long context, I
think these are things that Claude will
just get better at knowing. One of the
one of the things Lenny's like a slight
tangent, but
one of the I think it
um most effective ways I use Claude or
one of the most interesting ways I use
Claude is it's just a number of people
doing internally is to like help you
identify misalignment. Um this is like a
I think it's something that's for I
found really, really helpful. So, with
with Coda, you have this the Slack MCT.
Then you and you can you can tell Coda
uh you can tell Coda to say basically
look across Slack, you know the projects
that I'm working on, these are the
things that are top of mind, go and find
me areas of potential misalignment right
now. And it does a really, really good
job. So, this is something that I have
scheduled, runs every week. Claude's
like looking at things and coming back
to me with and saying like, "Hey, I
think these things you should be aware
of." And so, you can think about it in
that in that shipping context, it's a
similar thing where Claude can basically
be looking at what's what's happening
across the company and say, "You're
thinking about shipping this thing,
here's who you need to talk to, here's
what what you need to keep in mind."
That is so cool.
I am so excited to tell you about this
season's supporting sponsor, Vanta.
Vanta helps over 15,000 companies like
Cursor, Ramp, Duolingo, Snowflake, and
Atlassian earn and prove trust with
their customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever
thanks to AI. But as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks,
including SOC 2, ISO 27001, and HIPAA.
This helps companies get compliant fast
and stay compliant. More than ever
before, trust has the power to make or
break your business. Learn more at
vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
I feel like there's this like, what are
the jobs of a product manager and then
how are they slowly going to be uh
supported/done by AI. So, there's this
misalignment, just like fine
misalignment, and then maybe one day
it'll be like aligning people initially.
You talked about this uh cash automation
for growing. Like, how do I grow this
product? That's starting to happen.
Another that I I I use myself when I'm
building stuff is just asking, how do I
make this product better? How do I make
this a better user experience? And
asking the AI just give me a bunch of
ideas, and they're actually really good.
Uh so, it's interesting how these little
pieces are starting to be put into place
to do more and more of this role.
I'm curious what other automations you
have and your team have that are
effective. What I love about these
conversations is you're basically living
in the future.
You're working at like the most bleeding
edge company with the most talented
people, with the most cutting-edge
tools, and you can
like see where things are going and
start to actually
live in the future, build things uh that
nobody else has even thought about or
can do. I'm curious just what else is
working, what else your team has done to
help save you time, be more productive.
We use it pretty extensively across the
board, right? So, there's the standard
PM stuff, like writing docs,
brainstorming, looking at data. Um for
data, I personally have like a coworker
runs on a schedule and looks at sort of
20 25 different charts every morning and
then So when I when I come in the
morning, there's just so many charts, so
many products to track. Cowork will tell
me, "Okay, here are the things that you
should pay attention to. Here's like
what is concerning and here are just
some like interesting insights." And it
sends you the update in Slack or what
how does what's kind of the workflow? I
for me it just shows it comes up in
Cowork. So Cowork has a schedule.
>> desktop app. Yeah, in the desktop app
you can have a scheduled task that you
create and so I have a bunch of hex
links that it will go and and look at.
It uses the Chrome extension
for some things and uses MCP for for
other things and and and then it will
just give me a summary and then I I know
like I still there's some few charts
that I just like to look at cuz I just
like I don't know I'm this guy I just
like charts. So And they're all up into
the right too. So that I just like I I
like to see the chart
but then there's a there's like a long
tail of things and even the medium tail
where it's like you don't have time to
look at it every day that if Claude is
is proactively looking at it and you
start to feel good over time of okay,
it's like the the false positive rate is
going down, the like false negative rate
is going down of things that Claude
brings to you
then you just get a little bit more
confidence and peace of mind there. This
touches on an idea I've always had that
teams will have is a strategy bot
which just imagine an that's just
constantly watching metrics, the market,
the road map, what's working and what's
not and just like, "Hey Amol, here's
what I think we should do now. Here's
the pivot we should take. Here's where
we're going to win."
Like
it feels like we're very close to that.
I think we're close. I think we'll get
there later this year to to like the
point where that's very very effective.
That's my my my gut. I think
that that level of like proactivity and
getting looking across a bunch of
context and and distilling insights, I
think is it's it's it's like you you
know, the the the thing I mentioned
earlier, Lenny, about the alignment
piece. Like that's like a version of it,
right? Now you're just looking at across
more more data sources. Um this is
something that I use So I talked about
like this some of the standard PM stuff
with it, you know, brainstorming, data,
UXR.
There's a lot of like admin stuff I just
hate like life admin and like paperwork.
I just hate it. And so I get Claude to
book my meeting rooms. I get him book
meeting rooms. Claude archives sort of
my my email first pass at clearing up my
inbox. I I don't do any of my
reimbursements and and expenses. Claude
will go to Brex and file the
reimbursements. He'll go to Brex and
file the expenses. So all of that side
of things I'm just like just hand it
hand it to Co-work. Just get get rid of
it. And then the the stuff that's quite
interesting, I think, is like the the
man the manager lens where where I
talked about alignment is one thing. So
I I look also across my direct reports
like Claude can look into what what have
they done this week? You look at sort of
our team goals and OKRs. Look at the
transcripts from our our discussions and
understand I can basically ask Claude
like what are what are the key takeaways
and observations I should keep in mind
and like what feedback you think I
should give them. Um and that's
something that is like again, you can
just set that up weekly. But the quality
is like hit or miss right now. It's like
it's decent on some things. Sometimes
you're like, "Holy like I am so
glad that I caught this." And and um
that's very very helpful. And then I do
that for myself as well. So
I basically
um you know, one of my manager, Army
Arora, was I think a podcast guest of
yours, right? So I say, "Hey, based on
what you know of Army, both publicly,
she's written extensively about product,
and then internally,
and then our discussions, what what is
every based on everything that I've done
or not done this week, what feedback do
you have for me as Army?" And like I get
that every week, right? So, like a lot
of these things can already be done
today. I think that the as as as um
the models improve, I think it's just
like the accuracy and the signal of
these things is going to continue to
improve rapidly. I don't think you
realize just how much awesomeness you're
sharing here. This is just the like
every one of these is like, "What?"
Okay, so
Okay, so this Ami example. So, you you
have one-on-ones with her. You're You
ask you Is this So, do you ask Claude
co-work to go through all of her
writing, basically build like a model of
her, and you ask what should I be doing
differently based on what you know about
Ami? Is that Is that the difference?
>> Yeah, it's effectively There's a number
of ways you can do this. I think with if
someone has um a public profile where
they've written extensively, it's it's
helpful cuz you could Claude can just
get all that information. Otherwise, you
can have a project, or you can have a
skill, but increasingly Claude is better
at just understanding because you can
tell Claude like, "Look on on co-work."
You can say, "Using the Slack MCP, look
at everything that this person has said
in the last, you know, week, etc. And
based on that, like what are the top
priorities? What are priorities my
manager has based on how they're
spending their time that I don't know."
Um and and so all of this this layer of
stuff, which is like the I think about
it is like soft coaching. Um I think
that that is like unlocked in my opinion
already. I think it's just that you like
working with a coach who's like
kind of like drunk at times, not drunk,
but like, you know, like sometimes like
says something you're like, "Why like
why would you bring that up? Like that's
clearly wrong." But you other times
you're like, "Wow, like that has There
There's like one of um one of the the
the guys, Scott, who leads our
enterprise team. I think he There was a
few cases where like he found like major
areas of misalignment that would have
caused teams to sort of spin their
wheels significantly or or or um do
overlapping work and you think about
that the impact of that like
your your shipping in this world is a
bigger company is going to be
constrained at often by all the
cross-functional coordination, right?
And I think we're now starting to see at
this cross-functional coordination layer
some of that work AI is really being
able to be used to to reduce that toil
and and I think that 6 months ago that
wasn't possible and I'm like like 6
months from now what what what is is
going to be possible there? Oh man. And
I think the fact that all this data is
there is slack there's granola or
whatever people use like all these notes
from conversations and and discussions
are really key to this working.
Yes.
So for someone that wants to do
something like this, what how do you set
this up? What's kind of the steps? Yeah,
you go on to Cowork download the desktop
app on Cowork. Uh
connect the slack MCP that's where you
you need to um depending on how big the
organization is you you you may need to
get sort of team or enterprise admin
permissions to to um you know someone
with those permissions to to enable
that.
But once you have the slack MCP
connected and on Cowork you just ask
Claude. That's it.
Amazing. Okay.
I'm going to go in a kind of a different
direction. I'm going to talk about the
focus that Anthropic has had over the
years.
So if you look at the numbers um that
that you're all putting up
what's really uh incredible about it is
the focus that you all have had and I
think this is the reason it has worked
out so well. There's a certain
competitor in the market that is
realizing they should have done this and
are starting to shift
to similar approach.
As an external observer it feels like
Anthropic has been very good at
doing very few things but going super
deep. So B2B for example just going deep
on B2B
and then going really deep on coding use
cases. Claude code being an example.
And it's worked out really well.
Where who's been driving that focus? Who
has helped keep that focus from the
beginning? Yeah, I mean I think it's I
think it's a foundational part of of the
the the company. I think it's been there
from the very very early days and it
really comes from leadership and and I
think they they've just done a
phenomenal job of of distilling that.
I I think that you know, I I saw this
doc come up recently is I don't know
where it was shared. It was something
that Dan Mad is one of our founders he
had on on the podcast had written it's a
dated in 2021. I think a few months
after they started the company and it
was like here's why we should just focus
on AI coding. And this is like, you
know, this is like 5 years ago. This is
long before anyone knew what the actual
market opportunities were around this
and
I think this is just like
a deep focus that we have had internally
from the start on the importance of of
coding and and and B2B.
You know, it's a it's a
I think there's like two lenses to it.
It's like the maybe a view of okay, that
this could be commercially beneficial to
tackle and then also the the side of it
around accelerating research. So, I'd
say it's a pretty mainstream view now.
I've now heard people from various labs
talking about
this the importance of of coding to
accelerate research, but that has just
been like a very firm view that we have
been laser focused on internally of
okay, if you have the best models that's
going to accelerate your research as and
that's going to accelerate the research
loop and I think that's something that
like Dario has has seen very clearly for
a number of years. So, I would say that
that that's probably one of I think a
lot comes from Dario. I think a lot
comes from from leadership and and just
our DNA. I think the second though is is
probably just like necessity where if
you're if you're you know, it's now
changed with we're more well-known
company, raise lots of money, blah blah
blah, but you know, historically we were
we were very much like the smallest,
least well-funded player in this space.
Like in many ways it's a complete
miracle that I think we've like gotten
to the stage that we have. Like we we
didn't have the free cash flow or the
distribution of a meta or Google. We
didn't have the first mover advantage of
an open AI. And so like what do you do,
right? I think there's
I think there's like this broader
principle I have just around life of
like the the
freedom through constraints. That when
when you when you have a bunch of
constraints applied on you, whether
that's in personal life or or or or at
work, I think that that that can just it
can bring a lot of freedom because it
just frees up all this excess choice.
You're like, okay, like this is this is
clearly the path. And I think for us
it's like, okay, you're you're not you
don't have a ton of funding, you're
you're a small player, you don't have
distribution.
You just have to to really pick a very
narrow focus and even for a very
generalizable technology to to maximize
your chances of getting to escape
velocity. And I think that that's also
just relating to like how history played
out, right? So, you know, it was it was
well before my time, but
Anthropic had a version of Claude. We
had a chatbot before ChatGPT was was
launched. And we we had ultimately
chosen not to launch it for safety
reasons. I think the team didn't want to
kick off effectively an AI global arms
race. And you know, ChatGPT launched and
like they got like insane traction,
right? And and that just naturally sort
of pulled them towards consumer. You
know, there's another world where if
Anthropic had launched Claude first,
like maybe it did the other way around
even with all that focus stuff. So, it's
a who knows? It's it's hard it's always
hard to say looking back at some of
these things.
Wow. I didn't know that.
I think also people just don't realize
how far behind Anthropic was.
Like right now it's like, of course
they're amazing. But like I just
remember when people were talking about
Anthropic were raising money. I was
like, there's no way they're going to
compete with Open AI at this point. It's
like so over. Just like they're so far
ahead.
And it shows the power of focus and just
uh I guess I don't know. All the things
you all did. Like it it is absurd how
far you all have come and how successful
and how things have changed so quickly.
Yeah. And I would say I I very much
agree. I think a lot of that like we I
think a lot of that comes down to
our leadership team. We have a number of
people who've worked at I call it like
the best companies you know in the
world. People very senior people and I
think almost uniformly everyone's like
this is the strongest leadership team
out of any of these companies. And so I
think a lot comes from them and then
we're just very lucky to have incredible
people
I think that that helps a lot as well.
On the coding piece just to make sure
that part is is is clear. I never
thought about this that the reason that
the bet was so deep on coding is not
just that's a huge TAM, but it's that
this will excel this is a feedback loop
that will accelerate us further and
further. So if we get the best at
coding, coding will help us to research,
it will help us build better models and
it will accelerate faster and faster.
Yeah, that's correct. And and this is
something I think Dario has talked about
this publicly so I'm fine to find it.
Like okay, it makes sense.
Um the safety piece is really
interesting. So when I spend a little
time here so famously Anthropic, I think
the official name of Anthropic is
Anthropic an AI safety research company.
As a growth person
there's this balance I imagine you
strike between growing and just and not
and the mission being don't grow at all
costs. Our goal is AI safety and
alignment.
How do you balance those two things? How
does that impact your job? Look, I think
it's something we take very very
seriously and it is
it's the whole reason the company exists
and and and if you think about it's it's
all the way from
it's why this they they they left to
start the company. It's deep in our
corporate structure itself. So, you
know, historically um
everyone raising money is like go go
create a Delaware C-corp and and that's
like your the structure you do. And with
a with a corporation, um you have a
fiduciary duty to maximize returns to
share shareholders maximize shareholder
value. And uh from the beginning they
they went a different way. We we went to
we went created a public benefit
corporation PBC, which allows you to
legally say that maximizing shareholder
value is not the the like overarching
umbrella goal of this of this company.
And you you can optimize for for public
benefit. So, really I think it it starts
from there and it it ladders down from
there. For us, you know, our our our
purpose our our mission ultimately is to
is to make sure that the transition to
powerful AI goes well and is is net
beneficial for for humanity. Um you
know, we I think in internally like we
we uh like very excited.
Honestly, there's a lot of like very
very optimistic about where this can go.
But we also understand what what the
risks are. And so for us that top line
objective of
this just like this needs to go well for
humanity. This just needs to go well for
humanity. That is something that
we are happy to take a significant
commercial hit for.
And and we've done that time and time
again, right? So, like we have a you
know, like it back then okay, you had
Claude, but you don't want to release it
cuz you're like there's a safety risk.
And so there's time and time again that
I I've seen we've been happy to take
that hit and it's it's actually worked
out well for us in other ways.
From like a growth lens, you know, I I
look at it as like growth teams can
often push the boundaries of what is
like a good user ex UX etc. cuz they're
trying to very very uh much like eke out
metrics at times. When I think about if
a controversial test is is brought to
me, I I sort of look at it as like this
this two types of tests that are
controversial. One is when that test is
so controversial that you you just
should not run the thing because the
results don't matter because you would
not ship it for a combination of you
know brand and and sort of customer
friendliness and and values. And then
the second is where it's like it's
controversial.
Yikes.
I don't like it. I certainly don't love
it. But it it's it's like it's not like
a red line and so you're like you know
if someone comes to you with conviction
and is like I have a really good
hypothesis around this and you're like I
don't love it but like you can run the
test and see what impact it has and if
it's like if it's like a high level of
like cringe or yikes then I want to see
a high level of return for for the
result for that. I kind of think about
everything in like what is is it in is
it in one or is it in two and for every
company that one and and two is is is
different. I think for us the AI safety
is like very much in in in one. I think
that it's like Yeah. It's why we exist.
Like
it's fine. We're just not going to not
going to do this thing. I think then
there's other things that fall into two
where you're like heightened sensitivity
but we can we can we can try it and and
see what happens. I think zooming out
there Lenny one of the biggest mistakes
I feel like I see growth teams make and
particularly just like hardcore growth
practitioners is is just trying to
squeeze every last dollar. This is like
I think this is like a general principle
also in life like if you're a founder
raising money just trying to squeeze out
like last dollar like you don't you
don't want to do that because you want
people to come back next time as well is
is my view and I think in in growth like
it's it's I think it's really important
that you you usually need to be okay
leaving money on the table and that's a
core principle for us as a growth team
where we are very comfortable forgoing
metric impact in order to prioritize
safety in order order our brand in order
to hold a high-quality bar, and and to
maintain a great user experience. And if
you like
look beyond the short-term and like,
"Okay, what are the numbers for this
quarter?" And and you zoom out and you
think about what are the very best
products out there, you realize this is
how they all all operate. And that's
actually the thing that's going to drive
more growth long-term as well. And and
so I think that that actually ties back
to safety where as the risks get higher
and the stakes get higher, I think the
fact that we are taking a stance in
safety is like critical to what we do is
actually going to become a significant
uh it's going to be a significant
um competitive advantage for us that I
think is going to help us in the long
run. Yeah, and what's as you as you
share all this, like clearly it's
working and Anthropic is killing it. Uh
so I'm loving those examples when
someone doing something someone
approaching problem that way it it you
it actually works out. It's the same way
I think about with my newsletter.
There's so much more I can do to grow
it. I just
my philosophy is just like just focus on
creating good content, nothing else.
Like all these micro-optimizations are
not going to matter in the end. It'll
grow through people sharing it if it's
useful to them. So uh in a very small
scale, I have similar philosophy.
One of the things that people are
probably thinking about as we talk. So
you know, we joke about like, "Hey, AI
replacing parts of jobs here and there."
Like, you know, it is it is pretty scary
to a lot of people. Just like, "What is
the future of my job?
Will I have a job? How do I stay
relevant in this future?" So for there's
a couple questions here. One is just
like for folks that want to be
to thrive in this approaching AI future
as a PM, as a growth person,
do you have any advice, things that they
should be doing right now?
To me, a couple of things come up. Like
one
thing that everyone says is like use the
tools. You need to be on top of the
tools. I think you need to be using
Claude code. You need to be using Cohere
and understanding
just each model release,
what is the new things you can do with
this? How can you apply this to your
job? It'll work well in some things,
it'll work terribly in other things, and
then one model once later it's like, "Oh
that other thing worked." But, if
you didn't go back to try it, you would
not have known, and now many months have
passed and you didn't know that that was
possible. And so, I think that that that
that being on top of the tools is really
important both for improving your own
productivity, but also for getting
product sense around AI products, um
which I think is just going to become
increasingly important. I think then,
zooming out beyond that, I I kind of
look at it as like just leaning into
where you have a competitive advantage
and an unfair unfair advantage. And so,
to me it's like if you know, there are
some people some PMs who are really good
at like craft, for example, and there's
others who you'll throw them into a
situation with all these stakeholders
who have all these strong opinions, and
you know, there's no way they're going
to mediate this and they may they come
out and it's like everyone's kind of
swimming in the right direction. And And
so, the if you think about like what is
the major skill set that you have where
you spike in the that that can be tied
to delivering uh driving impact for a
company in a product role, I would just
double down on that and like almost like
forget the weaknesses. Just what can you
do to be become like the best person at
that thing? Um because that's that's
like very very valuable, and
I think that ties to the notion of
just leaning into being
interdisciplinary. So, going back to
some of what we mentioned earlier on
where it's like, "Okay, in this world of
engineers are mini PMs, that the the
engineer who is like highly product
branded is a unicorn is an absolute
unicorn. I think the same thing is true
for for PMs where it's like, "Okay, if
now, you know, that this in this ratio
if the designer's really stretched and
you're a PM who can design, you are also
a unicorn. Now, like the chances of a
company letting you go has gone down
dramatically because you are now just so
much more more useful." And so,
I think that is just like really really
important. I think
if I look at what's benefited me, it's
probably a version of this. Like I think
that for me I came from a founder
background. So like the mix of the the
founder background, the the like finance
was an investment banker. So like the
finance background and numbers and then
sales like I was I almost became an an
account exec instead of going into
product. I was right on the edge of
should I go into sales or product? And I
think like a combination of those along
with with growth is probably what's led
to like there are certain areas and
situations where I can just have
outsized impact to other people. And and
so understanding what that is for you is
is really important. I look at our
financial services product. Um, you
know, we've we've launched like
Quip for for Sheets, Quip for Excel.
They're going to like take the market by
the way everyone when Quip launched.
I know. Um, but like the guy running
that, Nick Lin, like he came from
investment banking, he came from private
equity. And he just has such a
competitive advantage where he's
building that product and he's like, I
know this. I know this. Like he's like
built for this. And so I think just
understanding
what what are those interdisciplinary
areas you can lean into to to make
yourself more um, just like higher
higher
higher impact is is really important.
And then the last one is just being
adaptable. Anyone who you you who who
who is trying to just keep applying old
playbooks, I think you're you're going
to make life a lot harder for yourself.
So one of the biggest things you come
into Anthropic is you need to understand
that probably yeah, 50, 60, 70% of how
you operated in the past just throw it
out the door. It's it's not going to be
relevant. And if you try to stick to
that, you're going to have a lot of
friction and and it's not going to be
helpful. So just being adaptable and
understanding that okay, the job's
changed this way. I'm going to go that
way is is I think like it's it's so so
important. That is awesome advice. It
matches a lot of what Jenny shared when
she came on the podcast, the design
design leader on Claude and Claude work
and all these things. Oh, just like
like the idea of going deep, becoming
the best or one of the best at a very
specific thing. And that not every
company will need and you don't need all
10, but just going deep and on
something. I forget what how she
described it. Mark Andreessen said the
same thing. Just like I think what we
call it a
or uh a sideways E instead of just like
T-shaped or one thing.
If you could have a couple things you're
really really good at.
Uh there's a lot of power to that.
Oh man.
Okay.
Before I get into something that I think
will blow a lot of people's minds about
how we actually met and kind of a big
part of your journey.
Um let me just ask you this. Is there
anything else about Anthropic that might
be worth sharing, might be worth talking
about? The thing that maybe comes to
mind is
is just like our our culture and and the
people that that we have here. I really
think it's our secret sauce. I think
it's the thing that is the most
defensible, the thing that no one else
is going to be able to replicate. And um
I don't think it's an accident. Like
leadership has has really invested in
this a lot and Daniela and Dario, they
they really believe in this in this a
lot and I think it's just created a very
special culture. So, I would say that,
you know,
this is like truly a mission-driven
company.
And
I was not 100% sure of that when I
joined. Like I was like I think that
this is
an exciting company. I I I I like very
much agree with their principles, but I
didn't know anyone at the company. I
didn't have any references on what it
was like inside. So, I was a little
skeptical when I joined. I'm like, at
least they're talking about it, but like
I don't know. Are they are they are they
serious about this? And then I came in
very early. I was like, oh oh
Okay, like
they are maybe they're even more serious
about this internally
they talk externally. And so, it's just
like the it's it's a mission-driven
company where people
viscerally viscerally understand both
the upsides and the downsides of the
technology and therefore understand the
the the divergent ranges of how this may
go for humanity and and how different of
a future that could be. And I think like
when you understand that of how
different this could be as a future for
all of us and like our children and our
grandchildren, etc. I think it it it
leads to a lot of passion for what we do
and um it just leads to a a lot of
belief in in what we're what we're doing
and so I kind of look at
every other job I've had in the past,
there's some degree of people at the
company who are just checked out where
it's like, you know, I'm I'm here. I I'm
sick of this but I don't have a better
option or I'm getting paid too much to
leave, etc.
That is just like not the case here. I
have not met a single person I'm I'm
saying I'm really not a single person
who's checked out. Everyone is putting
everything they have on the table.
Everyone is is pouring it out and like
leaving nothing behind and and is just
fully fully in it. And so I think that
leads to like this
releases energy that is just like very
very hard to to describe. I think you
have that energy, you have that
mission-driven nature and then it's it's
such an open culture. So
leadership is very very transparent with
us on things. We uh Slack is like a it's
a it's a whole maze. Every There's so
many things that play out in Slack.
We're very open. Everyone has these
notebook channels where you kind of have
like your own like Twitter feed in a way
where you're you're just talking about
your thoughts about things and so you
can go and like join the Slack channel
the notebook channels of people on
research and all these other areas and
like you'll you can learn whatever you
want and and you can spend so much time
like getting lost in that as well. But
that that openness where we even
encourage like people can just argue
with Dario there was an all-hands he
said something where someone didn't
agree and then and the person goes into
Dario's notebook channel and just says
like, "Hey, I didn't appreciate how you
said this and this and that and then it
sparked a whole big debate but like that
sort of thing where like it's encouraged
like go to leadership and disagree with
them, challenge them publicly and like
that I think that just leads to a level
of trust and all of that together I
think it just means that we have this
very very deep sense of
togetherness that um
man I have just like never I've never
experienced anything like it and and
then you get to the talent, right? That
I think that is the thing where
the talent density
is like I feel like I'm playing for like
Real Madrid at times. I look around and
I'm like man I'm playing for Madrid
where it's like you just like have the
best people in the world. I think it's
most I think it's most the case on
research. We have like the very very
best researchers in the world but even
you look on on like product we have Amie
Vora like she is phenomenal. We have
Mike Krieger you're like okay casually
started Instagram he's here
you know on growth we have Johnny again
who who is my engineering counterpart
he's like the OG in growth engineering
he's he's he's he's great. We have Alexa
who's like guy teaches growth
engineering at Reforge he's just like
another dude on the team
and
all of that I think is just very
special. The my favorite here is like
in the linear a couple of months ago we
had our on-site company-wide on-site and
in October and I'm walking around and I
see this guy he's just walking around
eating popcorn by himself. I go up to
him and I'm like you're Jeff, right? And
he's like I am and I'm like you are
literally the US ambassador to my
country Australia and you're just an
employee here. I'm like this is insane
and like talking to you about prime
ministers of our country and all these
things and it's just the the the talent
combined with that culture I think is
just this secret sauce that
is is is the reason that I think we are
as successful as we are. That's notebook
channel is so interesting just like as a
technical thing. So the idea there is
Dario just shares it's like a little
Twitter like
internal Twitter feed where folks just
share what they're thinking about and
what their what their priorities are and
things like that.
Yeah, that's basically it. Well, it's a
it's an internal feed where it's not
just Dario, everyone has one. And you
basically you share your internal
thoughts. It's a way to like
keep people updated on things on what's
working. It's a way where people share
provocative things. I think from like a
leadership level and we also think about
that as it's a way to scale your beliefs
and views across an org as it grows
quickly, right? So, like if you're now
adding a lot of people in the
organization,
you need to think about okay, what are
the like behaviors that we want to
model? What are the principles that are
top of mind to us? And if you think
about like yeah, you can have a bunch of
these meetings where you talk about it.
You can you can model that behavior, but
if you have a channel which is like
here's my top of mind and you you say
these things, right? Like if I have a
post which I did the other week of like
this is the importance of
being comfortable leaving money on the
table. Now, all the new engineers on
growth who've joined have seen that and
they're like oh, okay, we this is like
different to to what we had we've we've
we've known before, right? So, I think
it's like good for the openness, but
it's also good as a leader of how you
can scale your views as an organization
to like get people more up to speed on
the way that things are done which is I
think really important to like avoid
that drift which when you have so many
new people signing up, that drift can
lead to a lot of drift in strategy and
and sort of perception. So, it just
helps run a run a tighter ship in that
way. And more importantly, it's data for
the agents that run got running to help
them work with all these humans. Yes,
that is that is very very correct. Like
it is it is something that goes to
Claude, you know, that there are certain
documents in onboarding where it's like
the HR team has written
before any editing anything on this
document, please check with this person
because this is a document that Claude
references as like a key thing, right?
And so more and more these types of
things of okay, how does the growth team
think about this? How do safeguards
think about this? You're arming Claude
with that context to get better and
better at at at at helping in the
future. That's interesting. It feels
like that's something that every
company's going to have to start doing
is just sharing their thoughts in a
structured way so that all these agents
that we've all got running
have what they need to know.
Another interesting side note here is
just Slack. Okay, so like there's all
this talk of SaaS tools being replaced
by AI and you guys use Slack. I think
there's this famous tweet of you guys
still use Workday and all these tools,
all these SaaS tools. Everyone's like
what like they're all going to be wiped
coded out of existence. The fact that
you all
at the cutting edge of what could be
built with code
still use Slack and all these other
tools. That to me that's a good sign
that maybe SaaS companies will will be
all right in the future. I don't know if
you have anything there to share. Yeah,
it's a really I think it's a really
complicated picture, right? Like there's
a number of things that we just build
internally ourselves.
As time goes on that you know, you you
the ability for Claude to do that better
increases and at the same time like
we use Figma a ton, we use Slack a ton,
we use Workday,
we use a lot of these front ends and I
don't see that changing in the immediate
future and
and so yeah, I think like there's
there's probably some truth to some of
this. I think the other parts are like
it's overblown and
many of these products are like that the
customers of ours we we value them a lot
as customers and we use their products
very very heavily and I don't see that
changing in the And you have better
things to do like I don't who's going to
spend time building a Slack at
Anthropic? Like that is not where value
is going to accrue. And I think it also
helps you see how much how sophisticated
these things are. They're not just like,
you know, like there's been teams
thinking about these problems for a long
time. Anyway, that's a whole other
tangent. Just coming back to the values
thing, I just want to highlight
something here that's really important.
A lot of people criticize Anthropic for
talking about the dangers to humanity,
throwing out all these numbers about
jobs going away, just like creating all
this
uh fear.
But, like and people think it's oh,
we're trying to raise money or we got to
get people's attention or we just yeah,
we're just trying to like create
headlines. But, everything I've ever
seen internally is always just this is
what we believe in we want people to
know what it might be coming. Even if it
isn't bad, we want people to understand
here's what might happen and we are
trying to avoid it. And
you might say, why doesn't why is
Anthropic even building AI? That's if
it's so dangerous. And you know, the
understanding Ben shared is just like we
think it's better that we go at this and
try to build it the right way versus
just instead of that and just hope that
nothing bad happens. Yeah, I think I
think three three things that come to
mind there. First is
I I go back to something I said earlier,
which is that we we very much think
about things from an exponential lens.
And if you are thinking about things
from a linear lens, you will see the
world very very differently, right? Cuz
you look at where we are today and
you're like, okay, but like how much
better can it be in two three years? I
think if you're looking at it from an
exponential lens and you understand how
exponentials work, then you just realize
that like a lot of this stuff is
actually going to be happening sooner
than than than people think if you're
looking at it from a linear lens. And um
and then if you understand that the like
that there could be upsides and
downsides and the range of outcomes
here,
you you need to like I think we we we're
very much like need to be talking about
the downsides so we can avoid them and
push towards the upsides. I think most
people at the company are optimists.
We're we're we're very optimistic about
the future. I think it's just we
understand the risk is like it is not a
guaranteed that we we we end up in a in
a good place and
not enough people are talking about the
risks, I think in productive ways. Um
and and who have the know the know-how
of the risks. So, I think there's people
who may talk about the risks, but are
not in the game and so they don't
actually know fully. Like they're
they're not like surgical on what the
specific risks are. But we're we're in
the game, we understand what's
happening, and so that's one piece. I
think
the second is like
I think we actually believe in this
stuff more strongly than we we we say
externally. So like it is just such a
key part of how we think internally that
sometimes like we we need to like
like
reword your statements because it's like
people might just think we're being like
too over the top, but internally that's
how we think. And and what we're we're
putting out is a is a softer version of
that at times. Um and then I I think the
the third piece is that is is going to
what Ben said, where we we think a lot
about driving the race to the top. And
so it's like if you're not in the game
and you're shouting from the sidelines,
no one cares. It's just the reality of
of how the world works. Like no one no
one really cares. If you're in the game
and you're a leading player and what
you're doing is working, you can
influence people in who are also in the
game to to take the right actions. And
so that is like the core of it. Like if
we just pack up and go home, you have no
influence on this thing. And if you stay
in the game and you're like commercially
you're you're doing great, and then you
have ways to influence the that okay,
the these are the principles and put
that into the conversation and and make
more people sort of believe in those
things. I could talk to you forever,
Amol, but um two more questions just to
round out the conversation and touch on
some stuff that I've hinted at a number
of times.
One is I want to take us actually to
failure corner because someone listening
to this may be like, "All right, look at
this guy. Just worked at all these
amazing companies, cold emailed the CPO
at Anthropic, got a job, joined this
rocket ship. It's all been up into the
right. Just killing it constantly."
What's a story from your career where
things didn't work out, when you failed,
and what did you learn from that
experience? I have a couple. I think
it's very much not that way. I feel like
it was a lot of squiggly lines to to to
get here. The biggest I'd say is is just
you know, founding a company, raising a
bunch of money, having employees, and
then having to shut it down and and tell
your investors that you you've lost the
money and that you you had a vision of
what you're going to do and
that it's not it's not going to happen.
And so that I think is is probably the
the biggest one. You know, we spent 3
years on it. It was not like a we tried
something part-time. It was like no, we
we went we went for it. We had spent 3
years, raised a couple of mil. We had
maybe seven to 10 employees at our
biggest and it was something that we
really believed in. It was around mental
health and how you can quantify mental
health to help understand or get early
predictors of things like generalized
generalized anxiety, major depression.
So like it's stuff that we really really
believed in, but ultimately
you know, we were like you know, our
early 20s. We had like no idea what
we're doing at the time and many things
I'd do differently, but that was just a
very very very painful process. Um
I think the good thing was like we kept
our investors in the loop the whole
time. So to any founders who are
struggling out there,
like send those monthly investor
updates. It's really easy to send those
when you when things are great. It's
really hard to send those like when when
things are bad. You just bat it down.
You sit down and send an update to your
investors about why everything you
talked about last month like did not go
go to plan, but it's just the right
thing to do and it it keeps people in
the loop and it avoids surprises, but
it's still so tough when you're then
calling to be like hey,
like we are we're shutting down or
making that decision. Everyone had
believed in you and it becomes such a
big part of the identity. It's very very
tough. So
man, that was just brutal. Like it's
brutal. And it took me I think like a
number of years to truly get over.
I think that
it's it's it's a tough thing, but you
get so much from that experience that is
hard to see in the moment. And I think
without doing that I would not have gone
into this. I was not a PM before. I
didn't have any of these skills. I'd
never worked on products. I didn't know
how to cold email really. And And so, it
was the through that job that I learned
a ton of the skills that made this
career path viable for me. And it's just
really hard to see that in the moment
when you're looking at a point in time.
It's much easier to to like draw the
line looking back, but I think that'd be
my my like takeaway is just keep in mind
that it's a long game. And some of those
things like I'm so grateful for that
experience now. I'm so grateful that it
failed and went that way, actually. It's
very painful because it wouldn't have
led to what I'm doing now. And And so,
it's just that it's it's a tough thing,
but the yeah, positives can come from
it. What I love about this is a lot of
people have these
times in their career where they're like
it's all over. Like I'm such a I failed
in such a big way and my reputation's
screwed and
people were counting on me and now they
see I'm I'm an impostor. I never knew
what I was doing it after all. Now they
finally see.
And just seeing that And this was 3
years you had I'm looking at your
LinkedIn. You had seven employees.
Something like that. And and then it's
like MasterClass, Mercury, Anthropic. Um
I think it's inspiring to hear a story
like that to know that you can have
a big failure like that and things can
work out.
That is not the end.
Okay, so
in 2023,
I was uh I was going to go on pat leave
because uh my wife's pregnant and I was
just like, "Wait, what do I do with the
newsletter? I have I need to take some
time off. That would be really nice to
take a month or two off." And so, my
plan was I'm going to I'm going to do a
bunch of guest posts where people line
up. I put out a call for guest posts.
People apply.
Uh I pick a few and then I kind of slot
them in ahead of time so I could take
time off. So, I put out this call, "Hey,
who wants to write a guest post for my
newsletter?"
I got 500-plus applications.
One of those applications was from you.
And the pitch was essentially how a
traumatic brain injury made me a better
product manager.
And I still remember reading the first
draft sent me and I was just like, "Holy
This story is incredible. It's
just like like you feel such feelings."
And it was just so tactically
interesting and useful. Like, "Oh, wow,
this is actually going to make me a
better product manager."
Share the story of this of the the brain
injury that you went through and just
the journey that you went on there
because this is going to blow people's
minds. It was the toughest time in my
life. It made shutting down a company be
like, "Oh, that was nothing, actually."
It's just funny how perspective works
that way.
Uh
back in uh early 2022,
I had a traumatic brain injury. So, I've
done MMA for many years. I've done Muay
Thai, which is a type of martial arts,
for many years. Never had a problem and
just It's just like the one of the
things that happens, like the wrong
session, the wrong It's just a normal
day of sparring, nothing crazy. You get
the wrong hit to the head in the wrong
way. And uh
my whole life changed. And and
basically, I spent 9 months I was off
work for 9 months. The first couple of
months were brutal. It took me
roughly half a year till I was
comfortable walking again. It was very
very difficult. The first 2 3 months
beyond just
showering and going to the bathroom, my
wife did everything for me, like
including like texting my friends. I
would listen to music for
a maybe like 20 seconds and feel like I
needed to vomit. I couldn't look at
screens at all.
And it was a very very long recovery. It
was not clear to me that I would ever
work again for a while, actually. And it
was like we we'd even discuss with my
wife like what would we do in that case,
etc. And we had we had to think even on
on on those those levels. And through a
lot of pushing and and and really
working through myself, and and you have
to just slowly increase your tolerance
to things. It's a brutal process. Uh but
you need to slowly expose yourself to
different things and just get better and
better at each little thing. Actively
work on that. Don't push it too far,
otherwise you you have a big setback.
They They basically got to the point
then where where it was It was an
8-month so then after that returned to
work. And
and then slowly got better. And the the
part Lenny you don't know is you know we
we in mid-2023
we posted that newsletter
and a month later I I got reinjured
actually. Oh, wow. And because and and
when you have a brain injury until
you're 100% healed your your risk of
another concussion or brain injury is
elevated. When you're 100% healed your
your risk falls down to that of a
non-concussed population. But until that
time and like you need to be 95% healed
you're not 100% healed. And it was just
an innocuous sort of in in in everyday
life getting off a plane and bags that
hit me on the head type thing. And um
and I was off work for 2 months when I
like 1 month into joining Mercury. I
like 1 month in I'm like sorry guys I
need to peace out for 3 months. And and
that then it was a very very long
recover from that. And I'm actually
still not 100% healed. So I'm like
I'm like mostly good but I have uh times
when I have like dizziness and headaches
and other things that I need to work
around. Overall
I feel like it's one of the best things
that could have happened to me. I and
and I think that keeping that mindset
helps. And there's a point when you can
like take that too far when you're that
view is devoid is detached from reality
but I think it's just made me so much
better and effective more effective as a
person. A lot of the same habits like I
don't drink alcohol I don't drink
caffeine I have to do a bunch of these
things for my physical health I just
have to do them. So I keep doing them. I
take breaks. This is like a really big
one. You might think even in a place
like Entropia like how do you survive in
this way? It's like even on the craziest
days Lenny between the start of the day
and lunch and between lunch and the end
of the day I take a short break. Even on
the craziest days with like model
launches etc. Lucky we have like a
meditation area in the office that I'll
go to and and then the whole
the whole side of things around
meditation that I I talked about in in
in that that post. I think both you and
I have done a retreat at Spirit Rock and
doing a you know, meditation retreat
changed my life and it's something that
I do at least once a year now. I have
one coming up relatively soon as well
and and just I think all of that has
helped with
better managing the physical side of it
cuz this job is very taxing and then
emotionally having a little bit of space
to what happens. Like you you have you
have sort of awareness on one side, you
have
the reality on the other side and
reality's crazy here, man. Like
reality's insane. Like there's so much
happening every day.
Uh there's so much noise. It's it's it's
mind-blowing and so that relationship
between awareness and reality, that's
where you have choice that you you sort
of learn from from deep meditation on on
how to to shift that and apply your
choice there. I think that that is the
thing that has helped me significantly
with just keeping a more level head. I
think a lot of staying in this game at
this at this level of intensity is just
you just keep your head. Just don't lose
your head in like the crazy times and I
think all of that that I've gone through
is like helped me do this
without resorting to like unhealthy
coping mechanisms.
Wow. Uh I'm all you're such an
inspiration in so many ways. Just like
there's so many reasons that you would
not have been successful and things have
would not have worked out. And
there's so many lessons to learn from
just the stories you've shared in the
journey you've been on to help people
overcome challenges they're having. Like
if you
can like come back from an insane Was it
like a kick to the head? Is that what
what happened? Is that
>> It was a It was a kick to the head.
That's correct. Yes. Just like feeling
like you may not be able to walk like
not want being able to listen to music
uh to just like leading growth at the
fastest growing company in history.
There's also just like a lesson here of
constraints again. You You this idea of
just like the power of constraints, like
you're forced to take breaks, you're
forced to go meditate like
in a way that's really helpful and it's
like a lesson for us all. This is
actually really good for us all. Yeah, I
think that freedom through constraints
is is is like a one of the big takeaways
I've had during that time and it cuz you
may have these constraints, you're
forced to adapt and it it creates you
may gives you in a business setting you
have to focus more in a personal setting
and like if the constraint is I can't do
anything and I'm injured and don't know
what's going to happen. I don't know I'm
going to get better. You have two
choices. Like one, are you going to let
that Are you just going to resist and
like
fight with reality and and let and
really suffer from that or are you going
to
accept the situation and and like not
let that affect you emotionally. It's
not to say like I did everything, man. I
was like every single thing I could do,
diet, exercise. I was like, I'm on it.
Every action I can take, I'm on it. But
then you have a choice of are you going
to let the impact of that define your
happiness or not? And and I think that
that's the thing when you when you when
the impacts maybe are not coming, you
have to then adapt to it, okay, what I
want my happiness to be and what are the
meditation teachers said like the true
freedom in life is learning how to be
content when you don't get what you
want. And it's not to say you shouldn't
do something when you don't get what you
want, but I think that that that
takeaway of just can you be content and
like not have your happiness rely on on
getting something? I think it's it's a
challenge. I'm not perfect at it, but I
think it's it's probably one of the
biggest takeaways from that whole thing.
Incredible. And we'll link to the post
if folks want to read this. Before we
get to our very exciting lightning
round, is there anything else you wanted
to share or should we just jump right
in? I think we can jump into it.
>> We we covered a lot of ground. Okay,
here we go. Uh I've got five questions
for you. First question, what are two or
three books you recommend most to other
people? It probably ties to a lot of
what I just talked about. Like I I think
a lot about meditation and my emotional
state. That's what I spend most of my
time thinking and like reading and
researching and working on outside of
work. So my recommendations are really
to that. The first is a book called Joy
of Lit Living
by
Buddhist monk named Yongey Mingyur
Rinpoche.
It's It's just really about how you can
start to think about your life
experience in a different way and and
and you and have tactics of what to do
to kind of change just how you think
about things. This is one where like
I've recommended to people.
It's not like Yeah, I've recommended to
a lot of people and they've really
really enjoyed it. I think another one
is awareness by Anthony De Mello, which
is a kind of similar thing but from a
different angle. Those two I I
consistently recommend to people and
then the third one is more relevant to
the product in many ways is Thinking in
Bets by Annie Duke. I think just being
able to break down a situation and
someone's like, "I don't know it'll get
done in time." Okay, like can you put a
number to that? Like what what
percentage likelihood is it? Those types
of things I think are just so tactically
helpful in in in product. Favorite
recent movie or TV show? I think movie
is probably Mardi Gras Supreme. It's one
of the only ones I watched recently. I
thought it was great. I thought it was
just insane, absolutely insane movie. It
was ridiculous but but I loved it.
TV show I have not watched TV in a
while. I think it's probably the the
Olympics would be the one if that if
that counts. Is there a product that you
love just like I don't know when you
discovered recently or just when you
have in your life that's like, "Oh, this
is very cool. People might want to know
about it." Yeah, so I This is a funny
one. I was in Japan last week and
uh
I was on this sitting in this hotel and
I I just really loved the pillow that I
had in this hotel. It was very random.
I've had just had at times had like neck
and upper trap pain and and sometimes
I've been frustrated with my pillow cuz
I sometimes sleep facing up, sometimes
sideways and like the height's not quite
right. And I was just like this pillow
is just great and it basically this
pillow is like it kind of it's full of
beads and so you can like naturally
shift the height of the pillow while you
you're sleeping like even like
unconsciously without thinking and and
so I like looked at the tag I like what
is this I have ordered it to in Amazon
Japan and I brought it back with me on
the plane and so I have the name here
it's it's called the Maruhachi
Shinsui Maruhachi Pro Pillow and you can
only get it in Japan but they ship to
the US no affiliation and I think that
has changed my life in like the last
week. That is an awesome pick.
Uh do you have a favorite life motto
that you often come back to in work or
in life? Main one I'd say is just she'll
be right. This is a this is a very
common Aussie saying it's like she will
be right she'll be right. It's a common
Aussie saying when we are faced with
like a tough or difficult situation um
you're kind of like dismissing the
severity of it in a way by saying like
yeah it'll be fine and I think that
that's just like such a good
metaphor a such a good like tactic in in
many many cases and then I think the
other one is just like sometimes in life
you just have to go for it and that is
something that um this guy Eros Resmini
who was the the CMO of Discord who was a
very close advisor to me as a founder he
would push me on this and that was
something that he would often say he's
just like just go for it and I think
that that's it's it's a very helpful
thing of you can sit there thinking
should I do this should I not and
sometimes in life you just have to go
for it. I love the combo of those two
uh just sometimes just go for it and
she'll be right.
So good. Okay final question okay so I'm
curious uh used to be into martial arts
that didn't go great. Uh do you have a
new hobby that you uh find yourself
loving? Do you make time for hobbies? I
think I'm just like quite tight on time
for hobbies I I would say I I think it's
largely just like
work and have my body function and then
like
you know take care of the most important
relationships around me. I think maybe
the the the one hobby I'd say is just
I'm really into sports and I've gotten
more into sports that football in
particular and watching. Watching but
certainly not playing.
My wife is from Michigan and and she
took me to a game at the Big House and
it just changed my life. From then on I
was like, I'm a Wolverine fan and
big Wolverine fan, big 49ers fan. I just
love football so that's that's probably
the the the one that comes to mind.
Amol, this was incredible on on so many
levels.
I'm so thankful you made time for this
considering how much you got going on.
Where can folks find you online and say
they want to apply for a job maybe on
your team or where can they find that?
And how can listeners be useful to you?
You can find me on my LinkedIn. It's
just Amol overs RA. I'm boring. That's
that's it. You can look online to apply
on our jobs page. Is it rolls across
growth engineering, growth product,
growth design. We are looking for great
people on on the growth team so please
come and join us and I think being being
helpful to to me is just
two things. Trying our products, giving
us feedback, giving us harsh feedback in
particular on what can we do better and
then please send great people our way.
We are looking for the best of the best
to join the team and we would we would
love to to hear from anyone you know of
as well who could be a fit for one of
our roles.
Dream job for so many people.
Amol, thank you so much for being here.
Thanks, Lenny. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.